docs/100-quickstart-guide.rst, before:

Introduction (Thirty second pitch)
==================================

The python-sa-gwdata repository hosts a Python package called ``sa_gwdata``
which provides an easy way to use code to access groundwater data in
South Australia which is otherwise available via the websites Groundwater Data
(also known as WaterConnect) and "Water Data SA".

Commonly-used data is available in bulk as pandas DataFrames, and comprehensive
data is available via the web services which run in the background on
Groundwater Data.

Comprehensive documentation is also being worked on which will eventually
provide a data dictionary, tutorials on how to find and access data,
some tutorials on how you might use the data (although that won't be
a long-term focus), and comprehensive documentation for technically-minded
users on the Python functions and underlying web services that are 
implemented here.

Requirements
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Strictly, the only dependencies needed to run this package are 
requests and pandas, and they will install automatically with ``python-sa-gwdata``
if needed.

However, if you want to use the spatial data returned
more easily (and e.g. run the included tutorials), you will need shapely,
contextily, and geopandas installed. 
If you are using conda you can easily install these with:

.. code-block:: powershell

    > conda install -c conda-forge geopandas shapely contextily

Install
~~~~~~~~~~

You can install sa_gwdata the usual way:

.. code-block:: powershell

    > pip install -U python-sa-gwdata

This will install and/or update the Python package ``sa_gwdata``.

Usage
~~~~~

You can locate any wells by plain-text search for well identifiers:

.. code-block:: python

    >>> import sa_gwdata
    >>> wells = sa_gwdata.find_wells("ADE206 ADE207")
    >>> wells
    [<sa_gwdata.Well(259424) 6628-25427 / ADE206 / DFW T2>,
     <sa_gwdata.Well(259425) 6628-25428 / ADE207 / DFW T1>
    ]

The important thing about this step is that to obtain data, you really need to
query by **drillhole number**. This step of "finding wells" allows the code
to find and verify the appropriate drillhole numbers in the background (they
are stored as an attribute on the Well object).

Then you can query and download data for those two wells:

.. code-block:: python

    >>> wls = sa_gwdata.water_levels(wells)
    >>> wls.info()
    <class 'pandas.core.frame.DataFrame'>
    RangeIndex: 55 entries, 0 to 54
    Data columns (total 21 columns):
    DHNO               55 non-null int64
    network            55 non-null object
    Unit_Number        55 non-null int64
    Aquifer            55 non-null object
    Easting            55 non-null float64
    Northing           55 non-null float64
    Zone               55 non-null int64
    Unit_No            55 non-null object
    Obs_No             55 non-null object
    obs_date           55 non-null object
    dtw                48 non-null float64
    swl                48 non-null float64
    rswl               48 non-null float64
    pressure           8 non-null float64
    temperature        2 non-null float64
    dry_ind            0 non-null float64
    anom_ind           55 non-null object
    pump_ind           55 non-null object
    measured_during    55 non-null object
    data_source        55 non-null object
    Comments           18 non-null object
    dtypes: float64(8), int64(3), object(10)
    memory usage: 9.1+ KB

Access to WaterConnect webservices
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In the background, there are web services that provide data. To access these
directly, first create a Groundwater Data session wrapper:

.. code-block:: python

    >>> from sa_gwdata import WaterConnectSession
    >>> session = WaterConnectSession()

Then to access any of the web service calls:

.. code-block:: python

    >>> response = session.get("GetObswellNetworkData", params={"Network": "KAT_FP,PIKE_FP"})
    >>> len(response.df)
    190
    >>> response.df.columns
    Index(['aq_mon', 'chem', 'class', 'dhno', 'drill_date', 'lat',
       'latest_open_date', 'latest_open_depth', 'latest_sal_date',
       'latest_swl_date', 'latest_yield_date', 'litholog', 'logdrill', 'lon',
       'mapnum', 'max_depth', 'name', 'nrm', 'obsnetwork', 'obsnumber',
       'permit_no', 'purp_desc', 'pwa', 'replaceunitnum', 'sal', 'salstatus',
       'stat_desc', 'swl', 'swlstatus', 'tds', 'water', 'yield'],
      dtype='object')
    >>> response.df.obsnumber.unique()
    array(['KTR043', 'KTR023', 'KTR025', 'KTR026', 'PYP008', 'PAG003',
           'KTR065', 'LVD002', 'RMK004', 'RMK010', 'RMK006', 'RMK007',
           'KTR021', 'KTR022', 'RMK074', 'RMK080', 'RMK077', 'RMK055',
           'KTR034', 'RMK214', 'RMK215', 'RMK216', 'RMK229', 'RMK233',
           'GDN044', 'GDN055', 'GDN064', 'RMK355', 'RMK356', 'PAG069',
           'PAG070', 'PAG071', 'PAG077', 'PAG078', 'PAG079', 'PAG080',
           'PAG081', 'PAG082', 'PAG083', 'PAG084', 'PAG085', 'PAG086',
           'PAG038', 'PAG042', 'PAG043', 'PAG044', 'PAG045', 'PAG059',
           'PAG058', 'GDN186', 'RMK361', 'MTH012', 'PAG068', 'GDN128',
           'GDN132', 'GDN187', 'GDN188', 'PAG104', 'PYP055', 'RMK357',
           'RMK363', 'RMK365', 'RMK359', 'RMK362', 'RMK385', 'RMK374',
           'KTR060', 'KTR061', 'RMK368', 'GDN185', 'RMK369', 'RMK375',
           'PAG142', 'PAG162', 'PAG161', 'PAG117', 'RMK379', 'PAG130',
           'PAG129', 'PAG116', 'PAG115', 'MTH021', 'PAG089', 'PAG091',
           'PAG092', 'PAG094', 'PAG097', 'RMK370', 'RMK371', 'KTR067',
           'KTR068', 'RMK367', 'RMK347', 'RMK348', 'RMK349', 'RMK382',
           'RMK380', 'RMK381', 'PAG118', 'PAG114', 'PAG119', 'RMK354',
           'RMK384', 'RMK383', 'RMK364', 'RMK360', 'RMK366', 'KTR066',
           'RMK358', 'RMK373', 'PAG158', 'PAG155', 'PAG152', 'PAG135',
           'PAG134', 'PAG131', 'PAG143', 'PAG146', 'PAG151', 'PAG147',
           'PAG168', 'PAG165', 'RMK376', 'KTR058', 'KTR062', 'RMK372',
           'KTR064', 'KTR063', 'RMK377', 'KTR059', 'PAG139', 'PAG140',
           'PAG169', 'PAG170', 'PAG175', 'PAG153', 'PAG154', 'PAG157',
           'PAG156', 'PAG159', 'PAG160', 'PAG133', 'PAG132', 'PAG136',
           'PAG150', 'PAG149', 'PAG148', 'PAG145', 'PAG144', 'PAG122',
           'PAG174', 'PAG163', 'PAG173', 'PAG164', 'PAG166', 'PAG176',
           'PAG167', 'PAG141', 'PAG171', 'PAG138', 'PAG120', 'PAG137',
           'PAG177', 'PAG172', 'PAG123', 'PAG121', 'RMK386', 'PAG180',
           'PAG182', 'PAG181', 'PAG183', 'PAG179', 'PAG178', 'KTR071',
           'RMK388', 'RMK389', 'PAG184', 'PAG185', 'PAG186', 'PAG187',
           'PAG188', 'PAG189', 'KTR070', 'RMK392', 'KTR069', 'RMK395',
           'RMK394', 'RMK393', 'RMK390', 'RMK391'], dtype=object)

Generally you shouldn't need to rely on accessing web services directly.

Keep reading for more background and detail on what you can access and how.

.. For futher information, check out the `Jupyter Notebook tutorial
.. <https://github.com/kinverarity1/python-sa-gwdata/blob/master/notebooks/Tutorial%201%20-%20Use%20JSON%20calls%20to%20get%20data.ipynb>`__.

Commit message:

Re: fix #33 - clarify python >= 3.8 needed for importlib.metadata

docs/100-quickstart-guide.rst, after:

Introduction (Thirty second pitch)
==================================

The python-sa-gwdata repository hosts a Python package called ``sa_gwdata``
which provides an easy way to use code to access groundwater data in
South Australia which is otherwise available via the websites Groundwater Data
(also known as WaterConnect) and "Water Data SA".

Commonly-used data is available in bulk as pandas DataFrames, and comprehensive
data is available via the web services which run in the background on
Groundwater Data.

Comprehensive documentation is also being worked on which will eventually
provide a data dictionary, tutorials on how to find and access data,
some tutorials on how you might use the data (although that won't be
a long-term focus), and comprehensive documentation for technically-minded
users on the Python functions and underlying web services that are 
implemented here.

Requirements
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Python >= 3.8

Required: pandas>0.24.1, requests, platformdirs, pyarrow, and pyshp - 
these are installed automatically with ``pip install python-sa-gwdata``.

Recommended but optional dependencies: shapely, contextily, geopandas. 
These are best installed with conda/mamba if you are using that: ``conda/mamba install -c conda-forge geopandas shapely contextily``

Install
~~~~~~~~~~

You can install sa_gwdata the usual way with ``pip install python-sa-gwdata``

This will install and/or update the Python package ``sa_gwdata``.

Usage
~~~~~

You can locate any wells by plain-text search for well identifiers:

.. code-block:: python

    >>> import sa_gwdata
    >>> wells = sa_gwdata.find_wells("ADE206 ADE207")
    >>> wells
    [<sa_gwdata.Well(259424) 6628-25427 / ADE206 / DFW T2>,
     <sa_gwdata.Well(259425) 6628-25428 / ADE207 / DFW T1>
    ]

The important thing about this step is that to obtain data, you really need to
query by **drillhole number**. This step of "finding wells" allows the code
to find and verify the appropriate drillhole numbers in the background (they
are stored as an attribute on the Well object).

Then you can query and download data for those two wells:

.. code-block:: python

    >>> wls = sa_gwdata.water_levels(wells)
    >>> wls.info()
    <class 'pandas.core.frame.DataFrame'>
    RangeIndex: 55 entries, 0 to 54
    Data columns (total 21 columns):
    DHNO               55 non-null int64
    network            55 non-null object
    Unit_Number        55 non-null int64
    Aquifer            55 non-null object
    Easting            55 non-null float64
    Northing           55 non-null float64
    Zone               55 non-null int64
    Unit_No            55 non-null object
    Obs_No             55 non-null object
    obs_date           55 non-null object
    dtw                48 non-null float64
    swl                48 non-null float64
    rswl               48 non-null float64
    pressure           8 non-null float64
    temperature        2 non-null float64
    dry_ind            0 non-null float64
    anom_ind           55 non-null object
    pump_ind           55 non-null object
    measured_during    55 non-null object
    data_source        55 non-null object
    Comments           18 non-null object
    dtypes: float64(8), int64(3), object(10)
    memory usage: 9.1+ KB

Access to WaterConnect webservices
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In the background, there are web services that provide data. To access these
directly, first create a Groundwater Data session wrapper:

.. code-block:: python

    >>> from sa_gwdata import WaterConnectSession
    >>> session = WaterConnectSession()

Then to access any of the web service calls:

.. code-block:: python

    >>> response = session.get("GetObswellNetworkData", params={"Network": "KAT_FP,PIKE_FP"})
    >>> len(response.df)
    190
    >>> response.df.columns
    Index(['aq_mon', 'chem', 'class', 'dhno', 'drill_date', 'lat',
       'latest_open_date', 'latest_open_depth', 'latest_sal_date',
       'latest_swl_date', 'latest_yield_date', 'litholog', 'logdrill', 'lon',
       'mapnum', 'max_depth', 'name', 'nrm', 'obsnetwork', 'obsnumber',
       'permit_no', 'purp_desc', 'pwa', 'replaceunitnum', 'sal', 'salstatus',
       'stat_desc', 'swl', 'swlstatus', 'tds', 'water', 'yield'],
      dtype='object')
    >>> response.df.obsnumber.unique()
    array(['KTR043', 'KTR023', 'KTR025', 'KTR026', 'PYP008', 'PAG003',
           'KTR065', 'LVD002', 'RMK004', 'RMK010', 'RMK006', 'RMK007',
           'KTR021', 'KTR022', 'RMK074', 'RMK080', 'RMK077', 'RMK055',
           'KTR034', 'RMK214', 'RMK215', 'RMK216', 'RMK229', 'RMK233',
           'GDN044', 'GDN055', 'GDN064', 'RMK355', 'RMK356', 'PAG069',
           'PAG070', 'PAG071', 'PAG077', 'PAG078', 'PAG079', 'PAG080',
           'PAG081', 'PAG082', 'PAG083', 'PAG084', 'PAG085', 'PAG086',
           'PAG038', 'PAG042', 'PAG043', 'PAG044', 'PAG045', 'PAG059',
           'PAG058', 'GDN186', 'RMK361', 'MTH012', 'PAG068', 'GDN128',
           'GDN132', 'GDN187', 'GDN188', 'PAG104', 'PYP055', 'RMK357',
           'RMK363', 'RMK365', 'RMK359', 'RMK362', 'RMK385', 'RMK374',
           'KTR060', 'KTR061', 'RMK368', 'GDN185', 'RMK369', 'RMK375',
           'PAG142', 'PAG162', 'PAG161', 'PAG117', 'RMK379', 'PAG130',
           'PAG129', 'PAG116', 'PAG115', 'MTH021', 'PAG089', 'PAG091',
           'PAG092', 'PAG094', 'PAG097', 'RMK370', 'RMK371', 'KTR067',
           'KTR068', 'RMK367', 'RMK347', 'RMK348', 'RMK349', 'RMK382',
           'RMK380', 'RMK381', 'PAG118', 'PAG114', 'PAG119', 'RMK354',
           'RMK384', 'RMK383', 'RMK364', 'RMK360', 'RMK366', 'KTR066',
           'RMK358', 'RMK373', 'PAG158', 'PAG155', 'PAG152', 'PAG135',
           'PAG134', 'PAG131', 'PAG143', 'PAG146', 'PAG151', 'PAG147',
           'PAG168', 'PAG165', 'RMK376', 'KTR058', 'KTR062', 'RMK372',
           'KTR064', 'KTR063', 'RMK377', 'KTR059', 'PAG139', 'PAG140',
           'PAG169', 'PAG170', 'PAG175', 'PAG153', 'PAG154', 'PAG157',
           'PAG156', 'PAG159', 'PAG160', 'PAG133', 'PAG132', 'PAG136',
           'PAG150', 'PAG149', 'PAG148', 'PAG145', 'PAG144', 'PAG122',
           'PAG174', 'PAG163', 'PAG173', 'PAG164', 'PAG166', 'PAG176',
           'PAG167', 'PAG141', 'PAG171', 'PAG138', 'PAG120', 'PAG137',
           'PAG177', 'PAG172', 'PAG123', 'PAG121', 'RMK386', 'PAG180',
           'PAG182', 'PAG181', 'PAG183', 'PAG179', 'PAG178', 'KTR071',
           'RMK388', 'RMK389', 'PAG184', 'PAG185', 'PAG186', 'PAG187',
           'PAG188', 'PAG189', 'KTR070', 'RMK392', 'KTR069', 'RMK395',
           'RMK394', 'RMK393', 'RMK390', 'RMK391'], dtype=object)

Generally you shouldn't need to rely on accessing web services directly.

Keep reading for more background and detail on what you can access and how.

.. For futher information, check out the `Jupyter Notebook tutorial
.. <https://github.com/kinverarity1/python-sa-gwdata/blob/master/notebooks/Tutorial%201%20-%20Use%20JSON%20calls%20to%20get%20data.ipynb>`__.
